# Content for i and ? buttons for all SPC charts

**Page: Data for Improvement tab: Targets Set SPC Chart**

## i button

**What is this chart?**

This is a Statistical Process Control (SPC) percentage chart. SPC charts are graphs that are commonly used in healthcare improvement for looking at a process over time and determining whether anything changes.  
On this graph you will see a daily percentage of patients who had all their targets set by 13:00 hours (data points), the average percentage over time (red mean line), and the data process limits  (green hashed lines) which represent the boundary lines generated by the data, i.e. where we would expect most of the data to fall between. Note that process limts are not goal lines.  
Outliers, shifts and trends suggest there is a non-random change to the data. Why are we seeing this change? Could it be improvement or deterioation to the process?  
Means and process limits are recalculated once per quarter or after a shift.


## ? button

**Eligibility**

All patients in critical care. 

**Classification**

A patient is classified ‘all targets set’ for the day if all 8 physiological targets have been set or ticket ‘not applicable’ in the ICU Targets section of the ICU Navigators. 


‘All targets set’ classification is valid from 08:00 hours the previous day (or more recent – e.g. if targets updated or new admission) until 13:00 hours on the current day. This allows period of time to set new targets each morning.  


  

 

*Hyperlink -More about how to interpret SPC charts  (content for hyperlink see end of document)*

---



**Page: Data for Improvement tab: MAP**

## i button

**What is this chart?**

These charts are Statistical Process Control (SPC) percentage charts. SPC charts are graphs that are commonly used in healthcare improvement for looking at a process over time and determining whether anything changes.  
On these graphs you will see a daily percentage of patients who are on intravenous vasoactive medication that are within, above or below the mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) targets set for them (data points), the average percentage over time (red mean line), and the data process limits (green hashed lines) which represent the boundary lines generated by the data, i.e. where we would expect most of the data to fall between. Note that process limts are not goal lines.  
Outliers, shifts and trends suggest there is a non-random change to the data. Why are we seeing this change? Could it be improvement or deterioation to the process?   
Means and process limits are recalculated once per quarter or after a shift. 


*Hyperlink -More about how to interpret SPC charts  (content for hyperlink see end of document)*
 
The slider below the graph allows you to go forward and back in time.  



**About Mean Arterial Blood Pressure (MAP)**


 
Excessive use of vasoactive drugs is assspciated with poor outcomes, as is persitently low blood pressure.  
MAP targets have an upper and lower limit and therapy should be titrated to keep within range. 
These charts help us evaluate how well we are doing with keeping patients within their MAP target.  

## ? button

**Eligibility**
 
All patients in critical care on intravenous vasoactive drugs. 

**Classification**

Only hours within a calendar day where a patient is both on intravenous vasoactive drugs and has a MAP target set are included. 
A patient’s MAP target classification for the calendar day is based on the following critieria.  

**A patient is classified as either ‘above’ or ‘below’ if:** 

 

* The most frequent reading during the calendar day is either ‘above’ or ‘below’ target. 
 
* The most frequent reading is ‘in range’, but the patient is ‘in range’ for less than 50% of the calendar day, then the patient is classified as the second most frequent reading (‘above’ or ‘below’). 

* The readings are equal between both ‘above’ and ‘below’, or all three: ‘in range’, ‘above’, and ‘below’, a patient’s calendar day is classified as ‘above’. 

 

A patient is classified as ‘in range’ if the most frequent reading is ‘in range’ AND they are ‘in range’ for greater than or equal to 50% of the eligible hours that day. 

---

**Page: Data for Improvement tab: SpO2 Saturations**

 

 


